As Jehovah’s Witnesses,
we have a wonderful privilege
—the privilege of “declaring the good news”!
But just what does that good news include?
If we know the answer,
how will that motivate us
to be even more zealous
as we declare the good news?
Let’s consider the answers
to those questions.
First of all,
what is the good news?
We get an idea
by looking at how this expression
is used in the Bible.
For example,
we read of “the good news of the Kingdom,”
“the good news of God,”
“the good news about Jesus Christ,”
“the good news
of the undeserved kindness of God,”
“the good news of peace,”
and the “everlasting good news.”
So we can say that the good news refers
to the rule of God’s Kingdom
and salvation by faith in Jesus.
This includes all the truths
about which Jesus spoke
and the disciples wrote.
Through the prophet Isaiah,
Jehovah spoke
about the preaching of the good news.
Isaiah’s prophecy described the purpose
and effect of the good news to be preached,
particularly from the time
of Messiah’s coming.
Notice what’s recorded at Isaiah 61:1, 2:
“The spirit of the Sovereign Lord Jehovah
is upon me,
“because Jehovah anointed me
to declare good news to the meek.
“He sent me to bind up the brokenhearted,
“to proclaim liberty to the captives
“and the wide opening of the eyes
to the prisoners,
“to proclaim the year of Jehovah’s goodwill
“and the day of vengeance of our God,
to comfort all who mourn.”
This good news would have a positive effect
on those who listened to it.
It would “bind up the brokenhearted”
and “comfort all who mourn.”
This is likely the kind of good news
that we talk about most in our ministry.
The prospect of enjoying everlasting life
in an earthly paradise
under the rule of God’s Kingdom
provides hope to our listeners
and motivates them to love Jehovah.
However, the good news
also includes something else,
something that we may not talk about
as readily in our ministry.
You may have noticed in Isaiah
the expression
“and the day of vengeance of our God.”
So there’s more to the good news
than just “the year of Jehovah’s goodwill.”
We see this clearly in the words recorded
at Revelation 14:6, 7:
“And I saw another angel flying in midheaven,
“and he had everlasting good news
“to declare to those who dwell on the earth,
“to every nation and tribe
“and tongue and people.
“He was saying in a loud voice:
“‘Fear God and give him glory,
“‘because the hour of judgment by him
has arrived,
“‘so worship the One who made the heaven
“‘and the earth and the sea
and the springs of water.’”
Evidently, the “everlasting good news”
also includes a judgment message.
What is “the hour of judgment”
mentioned in this verse?
According to some reference works,
the original language term
here rendered “judgment”
refers to a “legal process of judgment,”
a “scrutiny of conduct.”
So God is looking closely at conduct
—how people act.
That is the basis for judgment.
“The hour of judgment”
mentioned in this verse
includes both the pronouncement
and the execution of divine judgment
against all false religion
—Babylon the Great—
and all other parts
of Satan’s system of things.
Of course, Babylon the Great
and this world’s institutions
have already been judged.
However,
their sentence has yet to be carried out.
When will that happen?
Toward the end of “the hour of judgment,”
which will conclude
at the climax of the last days
with the destruction
of the present wicked system.
That’s why the actions of people today
matter so much.
It’s increasingly urgent that we proclaim
the judgment aspect of the good news to them
because the time
when God will execute judgment
is fast approaching.
Why, though,
can we say that this judgment message
is good news?
It’s good news for honesthearted ones
because it means the end of wickedness,
including all forms
of injustice and violence.
For those who are suffering
as a result of the bad actions of the wicked,
this judgment will bring great relief!
It will be a clear demonstration
of Jehovah’s love and justice.
However, it will be bad news
for those who stubbornly refuse
to live by Jehovah’s righteous standards.
In Bible times,
Jehovah warned of various acts of judgment
that he would bring against those
who deliberately disobeyed his commands.
In each case,
he informed the affected people
well in advance
and instructed them to make changes
that were in harmony with his will.
To encourage the right response,
he often used his loyal servants on earth
to announce his judgments
and to convey a sense of urgency.
For example, think of Noah.
For years,
he fearlessly warned
the immoral and violent people of his day
about a coming global Flood.
He also told them
they needed to do to survive.
What about Moses and Aaron?
Jehovah used them
to warn Pharaoh and his servants.
For example,
think about the specific warning Jehovah gave
regarding the seventh plague,
a devastating hailstorm.
At Exodus 9:18, 19,
we read that Moses and Aaron
gave the people
the time and the information they needed
to protect themselves from the storm.
Yes, Jehovah always makes sure
that people have sufficient opportunity
to heed his warnings.
Second Peter 3:9 says:
“He does not desire anyone to be destroyed
but desires all to attain to repentance.”
The good news we are now preaching
informs people
not only of the marvelous hope for the future
that Jehovah offers
but also of what we must do
to enjoy that hope.
That’s why we need to let people know
about Jehovah’s soon-to-come judgment.
Notice how the preaching of the good news
is tied to divine judgment
at Matthew 24:14:
“And this good news of the Kingdom
“will be preached in all the inhabited earth
“for a witness to all the nations,
and then the end will come.”
Note how the good news serves as “a witness”
to everyone who hears it.
Depending on what they do with it,
it will result in their eventual acquittal
or condemnation.
Just as a court takes time
to hear all the facts
and to weigh all the evidence,
Jesus is wisely using his time now
to judge people fairly.
Both he and Jehovah continue
to analyze the conduct of individuals
and how they respond
to the good news that we’re preaching.
How should what we’ve just considered
about the good news affect us?
For one thing,
we will not hold back
from sharing all of the good news.
We will talk about the future blessings
God has promised
as well as God’s judgment of the wicked,
which will make these blessings possible.
Imagine for a moment
that you knew that a dangerous storm
was bearing down on where you lived.
What would you do?
Wouldn’t you try to be
as prepared as possible
so that you
could successfully weather the storm?
Wouldn’t you warn your family,
friends, even neighbors
and try to help them to do the same?
In a similar way,
we try to help as many people as possible
to prepare for the impending execution
of Jehovah’s judgments on this world.
While being tactful,
we do not hold back from letting people know
what they need to do to be saved.
For example,
we help our Bible students
to understand what they need to do.
In a frank yet kind way,
we help them to see
what changes they need to make
to harmonize their lives
with Jehovah’s standards.
Our new study tool, Enjoy Life Forever!,
is designed to help us do such teaching.
It includes several features
to help our Bible students qualify
to preach the good news as soon as possible.
For example,
at the end of each section,
there is a review with questions,
some of which are quite pointed.
Considering these questions with our students
can help them to see
what they need to do
to apply what they’ve been learning
in their Bible study.
We’ll have an opportunity
to watch a video later on in this program
that will demonstrate
some of the features in Enjoy Life Forever!
and how we can use them
to help our Bible students.
Understanding the importance
of the good news
will also motivate us
to preach and teach it with urgency!
We’ll strive to have a full share
in all aspects of the ministry
available to us.
Rather than taking a casual approach,
we’ll be zealous
and “work at it whole-souled as for Jehovah.”
Why?
Because we realize
that people’s lives are at stake;
they urgently need to hear the good news
and respond to it.
Of course, we all have
different circumstances and abilities.
We know that Jehovah and Jesus
take this into account.
In Jesus’ illustration of the talents,
not all the slaves
were given the same number of talents.
Rather, the talents were distributed
‘according to their ability.’
This reminds us that Jehovah and Jesus
are aware of our personal situations.
They know what we can reasonably do,
and they never expect anything beyond that.
Nor do they compare us
to our fellow brothers and sisters.
Knowing this is very comforting
because we may not always be able to do
all that we want to do in the preaching work.
That’s often the case
with our dear older ones
and others who cope with serious limitations.
However, we can all feel confident
that as long as we do our personal best,
Jehovah will be pleased with us.
He’ll never ‘forget our work
and the love that we show.’
So may each of us
continue to do all that we can
to share the good news
—all of the good news!
By doing so,
we will experience great joy and contentment
as we participate
in this lifesaving work,
helping as many as possible
before it’s too late.